Hi guys and welcome back,
one more improvement to our application.
At the moment, we've got this whole area
in which we can write text.
However, as we start going over this available space
you can see that we can scroll.
But we cannot see a scroll bar
so we have to add it ourselves.
Fortunately, adding a scroll bar is really straightforward.
What we have to do is go ahead
into the create file function here
and instead of creating a text area
and putting it in the notebook
we are going to create a frame.
So we will do container equals ttk dot frame
and we will make that a child of the notebook.
Then we will say container dot pack.
Next up, we will put the text area inside this container
and we will tell the text area that
the side is going to be left.
That is so that it takes up all of the vertical space
and gets joined to the container on the left,
because the scroll bar is going to go on the right.
Next up, we're going to say notebook dot add
and we will add the container
and notebook select and we will select the container.
Then down here, we will do text scroll
and that is going to be a ttk dot scroll bar.
For this container, the orientation
is going to be vertical
and the command, and this is
the important part, is text area dot yview.
Make sure to not call the yview function,
as that is what you can use to modify
the y-delta of a container.
So now that we have our scroll bar there
what we have to do is say text scroll dot pack
and the side is going to be right
and the fill is going to be wide.
We want the text area to take up
the entire vertical space.
Finally, we will say text area
yscrollcommand, make sure to spell this right
is equal to text underscroll dot set.
So what happens when you scroll the text area yourself
is that is going to move the scroll bar.
And similarly, when you move the scroll bar
that is going to move the text area.
So these two lines here
make each component affect the other.
Now doing this means that we've got
a couple of bugs in our programme now,
because the text area is no longer
the sole child of the notebook tab.
Now we've got a container that has two elements,
the text area and the scroll bar.
So in our get text widget function,
we actually have to make a couple of changes.
This is going to be called tab widget
and it is going to then do
text widget equal to tab widget
dot winfo underscroll children...
zero.
All right, so this is another excellent name here.
What this does is that it goes
into the tab widget, which is this frame,
and it gets the widget information
and it gets the children of the widget.
That is the frame, sorry,
that is the the text area and scroll bar
and it gets the first one, which is the text area.
Then down here, when we do confirm quit,
we have to do the same thing,
so we will rename this to tab widget
and we will do text widget equal tab widget
winfo underscore children zero
to get the actual text widget as opposed to the frame.
All right, now that we've got that, we can press play
and you will see a slight difference.
We do have the scroll bar here on the right,
and as we do type "Hello World"
and we
make it scroll
you can see that a scroll bar appears down here.
Scrolling with the scroll bar moves the text area
and scrolling the text area moves the scroll bar as well.
That's it for this video, thank you for joining me
and I will see you next time.